The Basic Elements
A resume consists of several sections, each of which delivers essential information. The table below explains what each section of your resume should tell your reader.

Resume section

What it tells the reader

Top portion of resume (first third to half)

If your resume is worth reading further. This opening “snapshot” should entice readers to read more.

Header (name and contact information)

Your preferred name and how to contact you. The reader shouldn’t have to think about this (e.g., wonder what name you go by). 

Headline and Summary 

What you’re looking for and why you’re qualified. Announces your job target and quickly sums up why you’re a good candidate. Note that experts recommend this approach to replace what used to be called "Objective" on many resumes. Read more in our FAQs. 

Skills

Whether you have the required skills. Helps the reader quickly match your skills to the position requirements.

Work Experience  or Professional Experience  or Employment History  

What you’ve accomplished that’s relevant. Explains what you’ve achieved that could also benefit the reader’s company.

Education

Whether you meet the education requirements. Again, helps the reader quickly match you to the position requirements.

Continuing Education  or Professional Development  or Additional Training  

What further training you’ve pursued. Matches you to job requirements and also illustrates initiative and commitment to learning.

Other Information

What other assets you offer. Provides additional information (professional memberships, awards, etc.) to support your candidacy

Select the Best Format    Different resume styles highlight different types of experience. Before you start writing, think about what format might be best suited to highlight your qualifications.

There are two basic resume formats: chronological and functional. The main difference between them is the amount of emphasis you give your job history compared to the amount you give your skills.

A chronological format      highlights your employment history. This format can work if you have a      solid work history in a particular job or field and you’re planning on      looking for a similar position.

A functional format      highlights your skills.      Use this format to show what you’re capable of doing, even if it’s not      directly related to your work history. It’s the best choice if you’re      changing careers.

The best resumes are usually a combination of these formats. They communicate your strongest qualifications while providing employers with relevant information on your employment history.